Justin Traglia: Good morning, everyone. Just a few more minutes, and we'll get started.
Justin Traglia: Good morning. Just one more minute.
Justin Traglia: Alright, let's get started.
Justin Traglia: Hi everyone, welcome to ACD Testing AD4.
Justin Traglia: Let's jump right into DevNet status updates. Barnabas, are you here?
Barnabas: Yep, I'm here. We currently have DevNet 5 up and running.
Barnabas: Last week, I've onboarded all the remaining ELs, except Nimbus.
Barnabas: As of right now, we have…
Barnabas: Most of the Prysm nodes still offline.
Barnabas: I'm not sure if we have a status update from the imPrysmment team, and we have…
Barnabas: Teku and RES offline as well.
Barnabas: I haven't had a chance to take a closer look yet, I can take a look right now.
Barnabas: Other than that, DevNet 6 is targeting to launch in the next, Day or two.
Barnabas: Hopefully, we can, start testing ePBS in the coming hours.
Barnabas: If you have a…
Barnabas: ready to go branch, please let me know, and I can add you to our, Google Justice metrics.
Justin Traglia: Which clients currently have DevNet 6 branches?
Barnabas: So, on the.
Justin Traglia: ones are missing.
Barnabas: On the ES side, it's ethrex is the only one that has it, and on the CR side, it's,
Barnabas: Lodestar and Teku.
Barnabas: Everyone's.
Justin Traglia: are the ones that do have it, or don't have it?
Barnabas: They do have it.
Justin Traglia: Amazing.
Justin Traglia: How are we feeling about a timeline for DevNet 6, Mike?
Justin Traglia: Clients, what do you think?
Barnabas: So it seems like, based on the comments, that Nimbus and Lighthouse should also work now?
Barnabas: Must be a recent development, so I will be testing those as well.
Barnabas: In the coming, hours, and then, We can…
Barnabas: We could possibly launch a demo today, in case we have at least two more ELs already.
Justin Traglia: Okay, so that's the requirement, is maybe 2 more ELs, so there's 3.
Barnabas: Jar.
Barnabas: Preferably at least 3.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Great.
Justin Traglia: Is there anything else from anyone regarding DevNets?
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Spec updates. Very quickly, I want to mention that there are specs for
Justin Traglia: Glamsterdam DevNet 6 on the EL side, and for consensus specs, there's version 1.7.0, alpha 11.
Justin Traglia: I believe both of these contain everything for DevNet 6.
Justin Traglia: Okay. Alright, core discussions,
Justin Traglia: Tersek, are you here to discuss, EIP7688 being included in DevNet 7?
Dustin: Yes, I am.
Justin Traglia: What would you like to say?
Dustin: Yeah, so…
Dustin: that, in general, that… I think we've actually had a pretty good stability on DevNet 5. We'll see with DevNet 6, so in terms of those… that criteria, or those criteria, of stabilizing EPBS, that's, of course, somewhat subjective, like, when is it fully stabilized? But I… I think we're kind of, let's call it asymptotically there.
Dustin: and a lot of the remaining things are tweaks. The other point I would make is that we have three, fully ready clients, on, on 7688, like, today. So, so Lodestar, Lighthouse, and, and, and Nimbus.
Dustin: er, and then, we have…
Dustin: talk of maybe Prysm being… that's a little… but that… that's, but, like, so 3 ready today, and,
Dustin: And finally, that this addresses
Dustin: There's, what's called opportunity cost of not doing it, in particular. So, one might notice that we keep having…
Dustin: Gas limits at $190 million, for obvious reasons.
Dustin: And there have been several other, sort of, cases where people are brought up that are, sort of, will be…
Dustin: automatically resolved. There's been a question of, sort of number of attestations. Now, will we actually change attestations in a block? I don't know. That's a different point, in a sense. Or, like, whether it actually happens is a different point.
Dustin: But, like, to the degree that these things happen, there have been several proposals which would be…
Dustin: Quite a bit more… hmm…
Dustin: sort of awkward to do without 7688. That is, it would start providing concrete value quite Quickly.
Dustin: And… and obviate the need to have, sort of, unfortunate workarounds. So… so that… those would be my, sort of, the three, sort of, core points I would make. The latter… the last part of that, the last section is sort of not new, in a sense. The… the four… the first two are kind of newer, which is to say.
Dustin: ePBS stability, I think I would argue we broadly have it, so the headliner is there, I would claim. And secondly, that the client CL support is
Dustin: Either there or close.
Dustin: And enough clients.
Dustin: So yeah, that's what I want to say.
Justin Traglia: Thank you. One initial question would be for the CL clients, which have not yet
Justin Traglia: added support for this? Would they be ready to add support within, like, a week or two? Or sorry, let's say two weeks?
Justin Traglia: for TechNet 7.
Dustin: Cool.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Teco has a prototype, but we haven't spent time to…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Update that prototype to latest changes, which also includes rebasing everything on top of Gloas.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): So… If there is enough… Appetite for that…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): I guess a couple of weeks seems reasonable.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Barnabas says, I think we would have a good, solid chance to have DevNet 7 be our final DevNet, by the way.
Justin Traglia: Hopefully, that'd be nice.
Justin Traglia: How are, others feeling about this, Terrence?
terence: I feel like we should, have a sufficient understanding of, testing builder API, at least the basic working, before we…
terence: add for DevNet, final, something like that.
Barnabas: Builder API is optional, as far as I know, so we can just keep adding,
Barnabas: compatible clients to the DevNet, as they… Finish the implementation.
Barnabas: So I think the only… only reason we would need to do a devnet is in case we would change the scope.
Barnabas: That would require, like, a hard fork.
terence: Yeah, but, like, I feel like testing Builder API, starting to test Builder API, like, the first test is on a testnet, then it kind of sucked, so I would highly, like, recommend we start doing that at DevNet level.
Barnabas: Yeah, makes sense.
Barnabas: But, yeah, this is also pre-orthogonal to,
Barnabas: to the SSZ, I think.
Justin Traglia: Justin Florentine?
Justin Florentine (Besu): Yeah, I just want to tag on to what Terrence says, I agree with that. I think we should be looking at this as if, what is the next step to getting to a public mainnet? Not, did we get a DevNet that was, like, you know, stable and went down the happy path? So, all the additional testing that Terrence is hitting at, I think we really need to, plan for and accommodate it not being perfect.
Justin Traglia: Tony's asking in the chat, how long would we expect this to delay things?
Justin Traglia: For the other clients that have not yet implemented this.
Justin Traglia: maybe Teku? I mean, you said 2 weeks, right?
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, to… to revive the… Prototype, but,
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Yeah, you need… we need any way to re-evaluate the… Code maturity, production readiness… on.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Oh, that prototype, anyway.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: How do we feel about, seeing how DevNet 6 goes, and maybe making a decision at ACDC this week?
Justin Traglia: So, whether or not to include…
Justin Traglia: 7688 in the next DevNet. It would require some work spec… spec side as well, like…
Justin Traglia: Doing final reviews and merging it into master.
Dustin: That seems reasonable on… Okay?
Justin Traglia: Enrico.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): One thing that is worrying me a little bit is the…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): PTC thing that we are,
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Talking about in the PBS channel.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): If that turns out to be a thing that we need to implement, how… VCBN,
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): Communication will have to change, how…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): If there is a real security behind the… those PTC… I'm talking about…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): voting on via PTC on, non-canonical forks… for…
Justin Traglia: Yeah.
Justin Traglia: I think we should discuss this in the CL breakout. I don't think that our clients will care about.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): But it's definitely relevant to the fact… to the so-called readiness of the PBS implementation, right? So…
Justin Traglia: That is true.
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): becomes… A real? How much will anyway impact on…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): On the readiness of clients, and probably…
Enrico Del Fante (tbenr): the SEG thing could add up to that.
Justin Traglia: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Is that kind of to say that…
Justin Traglia: this Thursday might be too soon to make a decision on whether or not 7688 should be included.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, okay. How do other clients feel about those general vibe checks?
Justin Traglia: Okay, we'll talk more about it at ACDC.
Justin Traglia: That's the only discussion item that I wanted everyone to hear. Is there anything else that we should discuss, or that someone would like to bring up before we go out into break… sorry, into breakout rooms?
Justin Traglia: Yeah, just too quiet.
Justin Traglia: I'll very quickly mention that ACDC this week will be at the original time, 1400 UTC.
Justin Traglia: Which is different than last week's time, which was 3 weeks earlier… sorry, 3 hours earlier.
Justin Traglia: And, excitingly, there will be a new REST SSZ Engine API breakout call this Friday at 13.
Justin Traglia: Under UTC.
Justin Traglia: So please, everyone, join if you're interested in that. Should be a great chance to discuss that.
Matthew Keil: Just to confirm, the plan for ACDC is that we're going to go back and forth between the new time and the old time every single, alternating every other week?
Justin Traglia: No. I don't believe her.
Justin Traglia: I… maybe Barnabas can correct me, but I don't believe we're going back to the 3-hour before time.
Matthew Keil: At least that was, like, a one-off.
Justin Traglia: Yeah, I think so.
Barnabas: Yeah, the attendance on it was, electric.
Barnabas: Unfortunately.
Matthew Keil: Okay.
Justin Traglia: Okay, I guess that's it for the main ACDT call.
Justin Traglia: Could someone help us set up these breakout rooms?
Barnabas: Yeah, I got it.
Justin Traglia: Awesome.
Justin Traglia: I'll be leading the CL workout room, if someone from the EL side could lead the other one.
Barnabas: Should be very.
Justin Traglia: Thank you. Bye, everyone.
Barnabas: Had some issues starting to agricultural militant.